welcome to slash forward
in this episode we're going to assess
how to beat the traps from saw four
aka jeff's epic adventure be sure to hit
the like button
in support of jeff's innocent daughter
to start i'll unpack the storyline and
see what we can learn
let's get to it we opened on a man's
hairy body in
ultra high resolution the coroners
provide a modesty towel and get to work
on john cramer's corpse
as they peel back his skull flap and
begin the y incision in brutal detail
we wonder if we're being shown all this
just to confirm his death is for sure or
because it's a trap
this is clarified when they do find a
tape inside his gut which he had
previously snakes swallowed because you
boys got skills
it's a message to the last man standing
confirming that no one will go
untested in the end a man then wakes up
inside a mausoleum but he doesn't know
that because
his eyes are sewn shut he's chained to
another man with his mouth
similarly sewn oh it's an icebreaker
i've played this before
freaked out about his moaning roommate
he starts chucking tools at him
we see that the duo has a lock and key
situation going on here but our
sightless beast
starts playing tug of war releasing the
gopin from the central machine causing
it to start reeling them in
naturally matters of this nature are
solved via combat so when mouth starts
trying to get his partner focused in on
the task
he ends up squirting for it with all
bets now off he viciously takes the key
makes his bro pay for his obstinance and
then unlocks his collar
park transitioned to a swat team
penetrating a classic jigsaw style
environment
having learned a few lessons along the
way they check everything
carefully and send in the bomb robot
first it slides on in there and
stretches its neck bringing carrie's
corpse into view which sends rig
in recklessly as he's eager to begin the
mourning process
he thought she may still be alive and
realizes now that this was silly he and
hoffman then get deep about what it all
means
on his way out hoffman then meets agents
perez and strom
turns out kerry was there in lian's home
their last message from her was a clue
open the door you will find me based on
the quick assessment of the scene
they're confident amanda had someone
helping her and now they're on the case
to sort this all out
back at the station we get some
indication of john's foothold in popular
culture
hoffman arrives and we learn that
jigsaw's ex-wife jill tuck
has been a suspected accomplice before
and then he encourages rig to go home
and leave the detective to the
detectives we also learn here from the
agents that carrie indicated two
officers might be in danger
when rig gets home his wife tracy is
leaving for the weekend
to help her mom out another family
responsibility shirt as he stays behind
to stew over recent events
that evening there are definite signs of
an intrusion in his apartment
thinking it must be tracy back early and
ignoring him he and his bulging traps
explore his living quarters
and he is ambushed staying on theme here
hoffman is seen putting a mini tape into
an envelope before a familiar pighead
appears behind him as well
rig then wakes up in his own tub snags
himself a towel hook he hopes to
permanently install in someone else's
body
and then proceeds slowly his first
tripwire just turns on the vcr
and we learned that his obsession with
saving everyone is the wrong choice for
maximizing his quality of life so now
he's gonna have to face that down
he's hit with the revelation that six
months later eric is still alive and
hanging above a block of ice with
hoffman tied up next to him
rig's gonna have to learn to let go to
truly save them whatever that means then
he hits another tripwire and this one
just
sets off his global timer after that he
proceeds through a hall of photos to
find a victim in a chair the adjacent tv
turns on
sands tripwire and tells him he can win
this one by walking away
instead he removes the costume which
triggers a tripwire
setting the industrial gear works into
motion and pulling the victim's hair
into the machine
with no cutting implements available in
one drawer he opts to shoot the machine
into submission this only works a little
and as the gears turn numbers begin to
reveal themselves
at the precinct they get back a set of
prints from carrie's crime scene and
they're a match to rig
sending them all toward his apartment
where he managed to acquire the
combination and release poor brenda with
only a partial scalping he goes to get
her a comb and mirror to see if she can
style around her new hairline and
returns to her stabbing at him with a
knife
he roughs her up a bit just to get her
to stop he checks her tape to learn her
game was to kill him to avoid prison for
some unspecified crime he then finds
keys of two varieties before heading out
the door
circling around eric and hoffman wake up
as the heat lamps come on and we flash
back to see that after his altercation
with amanda
eric was put in a cell and fed like a
dog to keep him alive all this time
back at riggs place they find brenda
taking a nap on the floor and
as indicated by carrie's tip they find
pictures of two
officers likely in trouble as hoffman is
not answering his phone
they wonder if rig is a victim or
accomplice and then strom notices
without even looking that there's a
picture that doesn't fit the others
this tips them off that it may be time
to go visit old jill tuck to see what
she's been up to
they get her in the room where she plays
perez like a fiddle making her
seem not innocent meanwhile as eric
slides around on the ice
working on his abduction muscles a
mysterious man enters the room and
saddles up to the monitor bay
and just in time to watch his rig
arrives at a seedy motel that matches
one of his keys
in the room he finds a box that enlists
him to become the pig man and put the
front desk worker into his own test
which he must then solve on his own
this proves to be undifficult as rigg
just lures away his dog to distract him
momentarily and then draws down on him
in interrogation we learned that as a
younger couple the pair was engaged in
the purchase of several large buildings
for their various business endeavors
one was rehabilitation clinic jewelry
another they had was mostly a furniture
making operation in preparation for
their baby and even when times were good
john spoke in whisper tones you don't
want to do that
snapping back to now the pair proceeds
into the next room which is decorated in
a rather provocative manner there are
photos of torture strewn about which are
the fruits of ivan's labors
rigg's only job is to force him onto the
bed so he may begin his test
as a pervert voyer he's being given 60
seconds to press a button that will
either eliminate his eyes
or his limbs while ivan screams his way
through this
a clue causes rig to think back to his
early days as a beat cop
a job title he takes literally when
matters of child abuse are afoot
back at the interrogation we learned
that jon liked to have everything
planned out just so even down to
aligning the conception of his child
with the chinese zodiac oh he's one of
those kinds of guys
late one night cecil returns at closing
for his jacket and then forces his way
in to get at them drugs
in his haste to escape he inflicts
mortal trauma john is unable to do
anything
taking away a huge lesson from this
period of his life
you can't help them
they have to help themselves but the
questioning is interrupted by
an alert to the newest crime scene strom
starts to connect some dots here
believing that rig is in the process of
being recruited the room was rented
under the name art blank
an attorney who owns several properties
the first address they acquire happens
to be
not too far away when they get there
they find some folders into camera which
implies
where are the two jigsaw targets back at
the jigsaw command post hoffman decides
to call it quits and tries jumping off
the ice block this reveals that the
platform is balanced by his position
putting hoffman at risk of electrocution
we also find out here that the helper is
a recent acquaintance of ours
he was also the attorney for the child
abusing father he came for blood but
hoffman already covered rig by
signing a statement alleging the father
took the first swing
it will come back to you and since eric
can't remember if he ever said anything
that might be relevant to the situation
he agrees to behave himself following
the prior clue rig arrives at the now
derelict building where it all
started for him and follows the
indicators he finds the mother father
duo from his flashbacks strung up with
an arrow holding them together when she
wakes up we learned she was offered the
chance to finally cut herself loose from
her loser husband
pulling out the arrows would be
agonizing for her but would result in
him bleeding out she wastes no time
calling forth the eye of the tiger but
ends up passing out at the last one
rig is not to interfere here unless she
learned her lesson sufficiently
as he examines the area he finds a
picture of his wife with a g
on it in a font that's been popping up
throughout the day so he hands off the
key and hits the fire alarm for her on
the way out
as the fbi examines the scene they learn
that art blank was the attorney for all
the victims they've come across so far
as well as jill then they get word that
one of art's other addresses is a
building co-owned by him
and jill and it's right where they are
right now they sneak around and find
billy with a message
it warns perez that her partner will
kill an innocent man so proceed with
caution and then it playfully blasts her
in the face taking her out of the game
but not before she hands off a key to
strum
back at the main trap eric loses
consciousness attracting art's attention
when he gets in closer eric strikes like
a serpent but this is just a minor
annoyance
he's not getting out of this art then
confides that if the last guy passes his
test
they're all getting out of there
implying he is a victim as well
then he gives eric a choice back at the
office strom trashes his workspace which
is lucky because it results in a
sherlock moment for him
he then keys in hard on jill who reveals
via flashback the trio's connection they
were all business partners designing
low-income housing to help people
john walked away from it all blaming
jill for losing their child
he got his fateful diagnosis not long
after and she lost touch with him soon
after that
despite not being around she's able to
flashback specific details of jigsaw's
genesis
we watch him think through and develop
his methods build future traditions and
gain confidence
he managed to get cecil into a razor
chair where any movement risks opening
his veins
but he's also provided a helpful tool
for escape all cecil has to do is lean
forward hard enough and his restraints
will be released
he goes back and forth but he gets it
done unfortunately his rage becomes his
undoing as he lunges and falls into a
little box of razor wire john had laying
around
zooming back forward a bit we see that
afterwards jon cares for nothing anymore
casting jill off completely so he can be
alone with his traps
ready now to cut to the chase strom
insists on joe providing him the
location of the building they all
owned that was named after her unborn
son which happens to be exactly where
rig
is rolling up to right now back at the
ice trap the game takes a moment to
observe their surroundings in more
detail they now recognize that the front
door is rigged in a way that's different
than expected and someone coming through
it represents a clear and present danger
as they anticipate someone's arrival art
reveals that he's still engaged in his
blood test
his job is to be ready to hit the
release button once the timer runs out
so long as
no one comes through that door meanwhile
rig is soaking in all the lessons
surrounding him while strom pulls up to
the warehouse
right when they all seem to be
converging on one place jeff shows up
oh right and the noise he creates causes
strom to turn back and pursue him he
hears activity behind a door
and bursts into the end of the last
ending and shoots jeff
ring then makes it to his door and eric
tries to warn him away
firing on him as he bursts through the
glass and shoots art this triggers
eric's sudden demise and hoffman
narrowly avoids going crispy
now with everything already screwed up
he figures it can't get screwed up more
and shoots art when he makes a move for
a tape player it reiterates that rig's
job was to not
save anyone they were to save themselves
he should have just gone to be with his
wife
at his lowest point it's then revealed
that hoffman was the other disciple he
set up amanda so he could be the number
one and had this scavenger hunt running
concurrently with the events from saw
three he then
casually strolls by and closes strom
into the other room and as we get a
broader perspective on what's going down
it's revealed that the autopsy from the
opening took place at some point
after everyone else was already dead
leaving us to wonder which movie will
cover jigsaw's activities between the
time
hoffman closed the door and when the
autopsy occurred this one has my mind
racing and thinking about how some of
the other
unaddressed plot points will fit into
the broader picture as we move along i'm
a little bit over the whole are they in
the same place but at different times
whiplash reveals
just stick to the mystery points please
but enough of that we have to pick apart
these traps and prepare ourselves for
the possibility of being forced to
navigate the sick mind of john kramer
to start we have to lay down some
general rules and assumptions
in this installment we're following
someone else who's gallivanting about
town
inserting himself into other people's
tests his test was to do nothing but
it's not clear if this was always an
option or not or what could have been
done otherwise
so we may have to look at some of these
from the perspective of whether they
were beatable on their own
or if they required rig's presence we'll
also have to mess around a little bit
with consideration for the perspective
of other parties involved and what their
motivations may be
because there's a lot of messy
randomness in the way these traps were
all connected there are two tests that
lie
outside of riggs's trials so we'll look
at those first
starting with the opening mausoleum tug
of war it's very unfortunate that art
succeeded here against this other guy
who did something but we're not sure
what
only to be dragged back in again to be
the showrunner for the festivities that
unfold
but at least he was able to rack up one
last dub which is not something granted
to everyone
this trap falls into the inelegant
category it appears designed solely for
the purpose of creating a
thunderdome-like atmosphere
we don't know anything about the
involved parties up front because there
is no tape
there's no automatic tv that turns on
there's nothing here that really
explains why they're here or what the
rules of the game are
i mean the only tripwire they had was
the one that started the central winch
really kind of a minimal tripwire effort
here anyway i know i say it constantly
but i can't overstate the importance of
gathering information
yeah it's probably alarming to wake up
with your eyelids sewn shut but eyeballs
over here immediately starts flailing
around like someone told him he had a
bee on his back
just calm your tits bro there was
literally nothing happening
at all until they accidentally jerked
out the pin i feel that a lot of the
responsibility resides with the mouth in
this scenario
art in this case because you're the only
one who can really tell what's going on
also the eyelids are soft and pliable
and the muscles that control them are
tiny
it's unlikely you could release your
lids through sheer force of will
incidentally art managed to do this to
his mouth at the end
after it was too late in addition there
were tools aplenty here
one of them looked like a small hatchet
it's probably easier to cut your mouth
stitches without injuring yourself than
it is to cut your eyelids open while
leaving the balls
unmolested if you keep things chill and
especially if you release the mouth this
trap poses almost no danger whatsoever
of course if things go sideways being a
proficient martial artist will carry you
through
the other independent trap was the razor
chair interesting that this was
presented as an early trap because it's
also one of the few
recently that has a pure message
attached to it with a simple premise
that requires sacrifice and will but is
completely winnable you wake up tied
down to this chair and struggling to try
to free yourself is not recommended
you already have blades inserted into
your legs and wrists and too much
movement will just
open them up luckily jigsaw is right
there to guide you through
providing clear instructions so you
understand why you're there
and how you may get out of course the
method for escape is daunting but the
level to which this one was locked down
pretty much precludes the possibility of
escape
outside of doing the thing so you start
by choosing a path
and then only do it once if you're going
in face first you do not want to
hesitate or move back and forth
then hope john set the tension correct
so you don't just end up vivisecting
your own head
if you make it through you'll have
learned a valuable lesson and will have
some [ __ ] and scars for later
at some point after everything heals you
will look like an absolute
badass a sort of grizzled scarified
tiger
after that cecil also taught us all a
valuable lesson which is to never forget
gratitude
this ultimately was his downfall and
makes a strong case for maintaining a
gratitude journal in your normal life
which also puts another point in the
column of constant preparation
next are riggs trials to look at him we
have to take a broad approach
his test which wasn't necessarily a trap
was simply an encouragement to step back
and learn to let go
nothing would have ever happened if he
had taken a few days off to be with his
wife and presumably things would have
strained out again if he diverted and
left in the middle
the real issue here aside from his own
drive to try to be active in all
situations
is the question of whether or not he can
trust jigsaw's rules which tend to be
vague and have double meanings
based on the outcome with brenda it
seems like jigsaw really meant what he
said but after that it gets a bit muddy
he's led to taking an active role in
ivan's punishment and arrives at the
abusive couple after everything has
already happened
at both scenes he acquires more evidence
to move him forward but doesn't really
get any contra indications that are
strong enough to overshadow the fact
that his buddies are all tied up and
teetering on the brink
so someone like him is probably going
along regardless just to see how things
unfold and try to see if he can affect
any change in the outcome this brings us
to the hair trap it's imperative here to
fight the urge to do something right
away
brenda's release is contingent entirely
on someone else being there
so we won't even approach it from the
perspective of her escaping on her own
the primary takeaway here is the value
of efficiency of action
the mask was off the gag was out and
nothing was happening
as long as nothing is happening be very
deliberate and measured in what you do
next
because it was removing the blanket that
sprung the trap this was rigg's
apartment so in essentially
uncleared area yeah he had an empty
drawer but he also had a short time
limit if he didn't have the time factor
who knows what he could have found
it seems warranted to do a more thorough
check for anything sharp
or possibly something long and sturdy
you could cram into the gearworks to jam
them up
everything looks so industrial here but
the mechanism has to have a power source
and that source is either plugged in or
limited in size based on available space
in other words power can be cut or it's
not quite as indestructible as it
appears
it's also not clear why shooting it
would cause it to stop and then start
back up again
unless it had a primary and backup power
source in that case i would be
encouraged to continue firing on it
as a final thought if you can
communicate with the victim you have to
learn what they know
it was never specified what crime brenda
committed so we can't understand why it
would be preferable
to risk being tortured to death for the
privilege of murdering someone in cold
blood
rather than just telling him there was a
knife inside the tv stand and then
hoping he'll let you go for doing him a
solid
but it speaks to the importance of not
being greedy next up is the deathbed
from a bird's eye view this one may
actually speak to the wisdom of choosing
to let go as far as we're aware
art was just keeping an eye on things
and making sure no one came in before
the timer ran out if rigg had never
showed up at the motel there would
conceivably be no punishment it could be
he learned his lesson
it'd also be that he never figured out
the clue or got into an accident along
the way
but once he got there he was on camera
and had little choice but to play along
actually in the grand scheme of things
i'm not totally sure this played much of
a part at all
other than that it provided another clue
and gave a chance for rig to see things
from a new perspective the trap itself
seemed unwinnable
although that's not clear ivan was told
to choose eyes or
limbs and he went for the eyes but when
he pressed the second button it took off
his lens
it was never clarified how to get that
second eye lever to drop
but given his background in history this
may have just been a murder device with
no conceivable way out
again tight timer fully restrained
individual and just by stepping into it
rig potentially put everyone else's life
at risk if he chose to try to save this
turd
which incidentally also calls into
question his general philosophy
if he thought his wife may be in trouble
or his two work buddies how does he
determine who to blindly charge in and
save
not only can he not necessarily always
save everyone but saving some may risk
the well-being of others
oh crap my thought process is beginning
to align with that of a serial killer in
addition
by this point time is running out and
things are moving so quickly
there is no real consideration for
examining the traps anymore
everything is loud and hot and close and
we arrive at the arrow joining after
it's already over with
he's encouraged to make sure she learned
her lesson before letting her go
but the concept of sufficient learning
is so subjective
regardless he doesn't actually let her
go he leaves that to others
and she is let go with no trouble
there's no real contrivance here to make
it a part of the ongoing game
other than the connection between the
victims and other players switching to
the perspective of helping yourself if
ensnared
she had the right idea even if there was
no discernible means of her escaping
after pulling out the arrows unless the
arrows themselves could be used to
release her from her restraints in some
way it's not clear because again this
trap had very minimal setup although
it does speak to the agony of drawing a
metal object slowly through your flesh
which we discussed in our analysis of
saw 3.
finally we come to the big daddy of this
installment the ice scale
now to approach this one we have to
strip away all pretense provided by the
movie i mean
what is this [ __ ] art has some sort of
back contraption putting him at risk of
getting his neck pinched if he presses
the release button before the timer goes
off
hoffman is in on it and in no real
danger of being electrocuted and rigg's
lesson as they were supposed to save
themselves what were the rules or
options and what was being learned here
there was literally nothing to do but
wait out the timer
and when given the choice eric took the
shot he was supposed to take and got his
head squished
it's set up as a hard lesson for rig
regardless of eric's action and is
designed for death without knowing more
about ark's contraption for ensuring
compliance it's pretty hard to assess
how he could have done
more or if he had the time or enough
leash to go find alternatives out in the
real world so what's the final verdict
if you're like me everything would have
run fairly smoothly on the back end of
this trial
i would have been on the back of an
ambulance to be treated for knife wounds
subsequent to brenda's release given the
information we have available it seems
everything was poised to kill rick
knowing he wouldn't be able to let it
ride
if he did i imagine them getting
released at the end and just sort of
awkwardly standing around for a bit
before saying their farewells and
heading home for a nice hot shower
before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of head shots
and as an fyi i have a website set up
where you can support the channel
through donations or merch
any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of life or sinned under the skin
with others to be added over time and if
you enjoyed the video
i would love for you to become a part of
the channel by subscribing thanks for
watching